# Drop and Impact Testing Rig
Manufacturers of smartphones and tablets must assess and quantify the durability of their product before releasing it to market. Consumers expect their electronic devices to withstand daily wear and tear. If this expectation is not met, the manufacturer’s reputation can be damaged, incurring financial losses. Similarly, manufacturers of protective cases and screens must also validate that their product offering performs to an acceptable level or face economic consequences. 

Two common methods used to assess durability are drop tests and impact tests. A drop test simulates a free fall from a specified height and records the forces experienced by the test specimen upon landing. An impact test simulates the effect of being struck by an external object and records the forces experienced by the test specimen. A qualitative visual inspection may follow both types of tests.

Although drop tests and impact tests are both required for a comprehensive electronic device design validation, current products on the market require manufacturers to purchase separate devices for each type of test. Separate testing devices require more room on the laboratory floor and incur more cost to the manufacturer due to separate maintenance schedules and more operator training.

Our team’s goal is to create a dual-purpose machine capable of performing drop tests and impact tests for smartphones/tablets and their impact-absorbing cases and screens. A single, dual-purpose drop and impact tester will streamline the design validation process for manufacturers by allowing operators to be trained on a single machine and user interface, reducing the labor cost of onboarding new operators. Additionally, preventative maintenance schedules can be simplified, allowing operators to spend more time on value-add tasks.
The main features of the design are the single tower raised by a motor/pulley system and the pneumatic drop system, which can be seen in the figure of the overall design. These individual components will be broken down and examined in more depth, following a similar order to that seen in the concept selection.
